Add content on customizing resource URLs (#2940)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/fundamentals/custom-resource-urls.md

---
title: Custom resource URLs
description: Learn how to create custom URLs for .NET Aspire resources.
ms.date: 04/08/2025
ms.topic: how-to
---

# Custom resource URLs

> .NET Aspire resources that expose endpoints only configure host and port values. However, there might be situations where you want to access a specific route of an exposed endpoint. The host and port are unknown until run time. In these cases, you can use custom resource URLs to define specific routes on a configured endpoint, which is convenient for accessing resources from the [dashboard](dashboard/overview.md).

Reviewer: Not a fan of using the term "route" here as I associate that more with the features in app frameworks to define patterns for incoming request matching. Can we rephrase this to not use the term "route" and instead use terms common with URLs, e.g. "path"?

Author: Yeah, I agree - "path" is better and more common terminology. I'll fix that.

> .NET Aspire resources that expose endpoints only configure host and port values. However, there might be situations where you want to access a specific route of an exposed endpoint. The host and port are unknown until run time. In these cases, you can use custom resource URLs to define specific routes on a configured endpoint, which is convenient for accessing resources from the [dashboard](dashboard/overview.md).

Author: ```suggestion
.NET Aspire resources that expose endpoints only configure host and port values. However, there might be situations where you want to access a specific path of an exposed endpoint. The host and port are unknown until run time. In these cases, you can use custom resource URLs to define specific paths on a configured endpoint, which is convenient for accessing resources from the [dashboard](dashboard/overview.md).
```

## Default endpoint behavior

> By default, as described in the [Networking inner loop](networking-overview.md#networking-in-the-inner-loop) article, .NET Aspire relies on existing configurations such as Kestrel or launch profiles to determine the host and port of a resource for a configured endpoint.

Reviewer: Can we clarify that this is only true for ASPNET Core project resources?

Author: Ah, so it's not applicable to executable or container resources?

Reviewer: Only Project resources have their Kestrel configuration and launch profiles inspected for endpoints/URLs.

> By default, as described in the [Networking inner loop](networking-overview.md#networking-in-the-inner-loop) article, .NET Aspire relies on existing configurations such as Kestrel or launch profiles to determine the host and port of a resource for a configured endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, .NET Aspire project resources relies on existing configurations such as Kestrel or launch profiles to determine the host and port of a resource for a configured endpoint.
```

## Customize resource URLs

Use the appropriate `WithUrl` overload, `WithUrls`, or `WithUrlForEndpoint` APIs on any supported resource builder to define custom URLs for a resource. The following example demonstrates how to set a custom URL for a project resource:

:::code source="snippets/custom-urls/AspireApp.AppHost/Program.WithUrl.cs" id="withurl":::

> [!TIP]
> There's an overload that accepts a `string` allowing you to pass any URL. This is useful for defining custom URLs that aren't directly related to the resource's endpoint.

The preceding code assigns a project reference to the `api` variable, which is then used to create a custom URL for the `Admin Portal` route. The `WithUrl` method takes a <xref:Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.ReferenceExpression> and a display name as parameters. The resulting URL is available in the dashboard as shown in the following screenshot:

:::image type="content" source="dashboard/media/custom-urls/custom-url-admin-portal.png" alt-text=".NET Aspire dashboard custom Admin Portal URL." lightbox="dashboard/media/custom-urls/custom-url-admin-portal.png":::

### Customize endpoint URL

<!-- TODO: Add xref to WithUrlForEndpoint when available -->

> To expose specific endpoints like Scalar or Swagger in the dashboard, use the `WithUrlForEndpoint` method. The following example demonstrates how to customize the URL for a resource endpoint:

Reviewer: This phrasing makes it sound like Scalar and Swagger are endpoints, but they're not. The endpoint is the scheme/host/port declaration and things like Scalar and Swagger are just services that a given resource might be serving from a URL based at a declared endpoint. It's important to call out that the `WithUrlForEndpoint` will **update** the first URL that is associated with the given endpoint. If you want to **add** a separate URL (even for the same endpoint) you need to call the `WithUrl` overload that takes a `ReferenceExpression` or interpolated string, or call `WithUrls` and add the URL to the `Urls` list on the context.

Author: Fixed

> To expose specific endpoints like Scalar or Swagger in the dashboard, use the `WithUrlForEndpoint` method. The following example demonstrates how to customize the URL for a resource endpoint:

Author: ```suggestion
Both [Scalar](https://scalar.com/) and [Swagger](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) are common API services that enhance the usability of endpoints. These services are accessed via URLs tied to declared endpoints.

To customize the URL for the first associated resource endpoint, use the `WithUrlForEndpoint` method as shown in the following example:
```

:::code source="snippets/custom-urls/AspireApp.AppHost/Program.WithUrlForEndpoint.cs" id="withurlforendpoint":::

<!-- TODO: Add xref to ResourceUrlAnnotation when available -->

> The preceding example assumes that the `api` project resource has an `https` endpoint configured. The `WithUrlForEndpoint` method updates the `ResourceUrlAnnotation` for the endpoint, in this case assigning the display text to `Scalar (HTTPS)` and appends the `/scalar` path to the URL.

Author: ```suggestion
The preceding example assumes that the `api` project resource has an `https` endpoint configured. The `WithUrlForEndpoint` method updates the first URL associated with the endpoint. In this case, it assigns the display text to `Scalar (HTTPS)` and appends the `/scalar` path to the URL.
```

> The preceding example assumes that the `api` project resource has an `https` endpoint configured. The `WithUrlForEndpoint` method updates the `ResourceUrlAnnotation` for the endpoint, in this case assigning the display text to `Scalar (HTTPS)` and appends the `/scalar` route to the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding example assumes that the `api` project resource has an `https` endpoint configured. The `WithUrlForEndpoint` method updates the `ResourceUrlAnnotation` for the endpoint, in this case assigning the display text to `Scalar (HTTPS)` and appends the `/scalar` path to the URL.
```

---

> title: Custom resource URLs

Author: ```suggestion
title: Define custom resource URLs
```

description: Learn how to create custom URLs for .NET Aspire resources.
ms.date: 04/08/2025
ms.topic: how-to
---

> # Define custom resource URLs

Reviewer: One last thing to call out is that custom URLs only apply to "run" mode, not "publish" mode, i.e. it's only for configuring resource URLs that are displayed on the dashboard.

> .NET Aspire resources that expose endpoints only configure host and port values. However, there might be situations where you want to access a specific path of an exposed endpoint. The host and port are unknown until run time. In these cases, you can use custom resource URLs to define specific paths on a configured endpoint, which is convenient for accessing resources from the [dashboard](dashboard/overview.md).

Reviewer: Would be good to mention here that you can also just add URLs to any resource, not related to endpoints at all.

> .NET Aspire resources that expose endpoints only configure host and port values. However, there might be situations where you want to access a specific path of an exposed endpoint. The host and port are unknown until run time. In these cases, you can use custom resource URLs to define specific paths on a configured endpoint, which is convenient for accessing resources from the [dashboard](dashboard/overview.md).

Author: ```suggestion
.NET Aspire resources that expose endpoints only configure host and port values. However, there might be situations where you want to access a specific path of an exposed endpoint. The host and port are unknown until run time. In these cases, you can use custom resource URLs to define specific paths on a configured endpoint, which is convenient for accessing resources from the [dashboard](dashboard/overview.md). Additionally, you can define custom URLs on a resource that aren't associated with an endpoint. In this article, you learn how to define custom resource URLs.
```

## Default endpoint behavior

> By default, .NET Aspire project resources relies on existing configurations such as Kestrel or launch profiles to determine the host and port of a resource for a configured endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, .NET Aspire project resources rely on existing configurations such as Kestrel or launch profiles to determine the host and port of a resource for a configured endpoint.
```
